---
layout: event
title: Chicago ML hosted by SpotHero
time: 6:00 PM to 8:00 PM
host: SpotHero
tags: event
badges: [Meetup]
registration_url: https://www.meetup.com/Chicago-ML/events/258925252/
---

![](https://secure.meetupstatic.com/photos/event/5/a/9/a/highres_480143194.jpeg)

## Seamless Parking: An ML Approach to License Plate Recognition by Tony Smaniotto

License Plate Recognition (LPR) is a technology that has been utilized
across several industries in recent years, but has the potential to
disrupt many more. This talk outlines how LPR can play a role in the
future of parking, the challenges inherent to LPR, and details a
two-phase image recognition model that can both identify and read a
license plate, given an image of a vehicle.

Tony Smaniotto is a Data Scientist with 8 years of experience working
within product development, marketing analytics, and engineering
teams. Prior to joining SpotHero, Tony held DS and Analytics roles at
Leo Burnett and General Electric. Tony recently completed a Masters in
Analytics program at The University of Chicago. He's passionate about
building tools that help businesses make better decisions using data.

## Recommendation Systems by Ilya Barshai

Recommendations play a huge role in the user experience on any
platforms that deal with digital content delivery and ecommerce. The
first part of this talk will go through the traditional techniques for
producing high quality recommendation systems. The second part will go
through recent NLP-based work for resolving some of the issues these
traditional systems suffer from.

Ilya Barshai is a machine learning scientist with Data Cowboys, a
small consulting cooperative based in Seattle and Chicago. Ilya works
on machine learning and data science problems in a variety of fields
including education, biomedical research, manufacturing and ecommerce.
